don't start seo until you have this
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and host of the top 100 marketing
podcast business growth show if you
haven't yet check out our weekly email
where i'm sharing actual web and
marketing tips useful podcasts free
guides bonus goodies and much much more
each and every monday to start your week
off with a bang sign up today over at
business growth dot email so i'm going
to share a bunch of tips across
actionables for your website off your
site and also the mindset that you
should have in place before you
kickstart seo search engine optimization
as a long-term way to get your business
website to the top of google's organic
non-paid rankings get that traffic in
get those people to your site build up
your brand reputation and most
importantly build up your inbound leads
and sales revenue and to be fair a lot
of these tips could apply to paid
advertising as well so with that said
let's jump straight in so first off with
seo you're gonna need a long term
mindset so unlike google ads or social
ads
it's not a quick hit at least
very rarely unless you're targeting a
super niche location or super nice
industry where there's not much
competition typically you're talking
several months sometimes even longer
depending on how competitive the
industry is to see results so you need
to understand when you're going into seo
that it's a long term victory
so it's going to take time to perform
keyword research to do work on your
website on your content on your website
to start building out articles and
content distributing them building
backlinks all these bits and pieces that
make up seo on a monthly basis
over time gonna ramp up
build up your authority your domain
authority build up your organic ranking
steadily month by month as long as the
work's being done right and over time
you're going to get you towards that
page one position the target search
terms that you're after so bear that in
mind it's not a quick hit at least very
rarely so you've got to go into it like
most things in marketing with that long
term mindset and secondly it's crucial
that you've got a solid website that
acts as your very best sales person
because it's live 24 7 that's going to
convert all this traffic that driving
long term from seo into a steady flow of
organic qualified sales leads so things
like making sure that your website loads
super quick in under two seconds has a
professional design that appeals to
target customers
works smoothly on mobile on tablet and
pc has super clear messaging so in terms
of your home page headline exactly what
you do how it helps people and then
guiding people with clear call to action
to take that next step whether it's to
learn more about your services whether
it's to book a strategy call set up a
demo or even purchase directly making
sure that your website is super quick
super clear in terms of messaging it's
backing up its claims so it's leveraging
social proof with things like
testimonials reviews case studies video
reviews all that good stuff and making
sure it's really easy to navigate with
clear menu navigation so it's got a
great user experience on both mobile and
pc and making sure it's got key pages
which again is going to help with your
seo so you've got
clear informative pages for all the main
services or products that you offer and
again making sure those are as detailed
as comprehensive as actionable in terms
of the tips they have as possible
leveraging questions and answers so
making sure again when i talk about
making your website your best sales rep
just like a great sales professional
does you understand what common
objections are from prospects and you're
leveraging those so on your information
pages you can talk about common issues
people come to you with how you tackle
those of their common objections again
how you address those and then backing
up with social proof with customer
testimonials reviews all that good stuff
if you can if you can educate people on
your website
using things like blog articles having a
podcast section perhaps a resource
section that leverages podcasts articles
useful videos guides so essentially
you're tackling all bases with your site
you're making it crystal clear on the
value that you provide you're backing up
your claims and then you're making it
super super easy for all your visitors
your hard earned traffic to easily speak
to your sales team and take that next
step so your seo doesn't go to waste and
next up at number three is thinking
about your keywords that you're
targeting so this is more as to when you
actually start the seo but a very vital
point so making sure that you're
targeting search terms that have both
high buying intent
and also ones for people that are
perhaps higher up in the sales funnel
not yet ready to speak to sales so if we
start with high buying intent so what i
mean by this is someone's typing it on
google because they want to speak to a
sales rep or they want to buy right now
so examples of this might be if you're
looking for a sales trainer best sales
training best sales training company
sales training company in geographical
locations so your town or your city
those kind of keywords someone's
probably typing it in because they need
the service right here right now an
example of web choice is we're page one
right now in the uk and a bunch of other
countries if you type in web development
company we come up top organic page ones
listings that gives us a bunch of
traffic and high buying intent enquiries
and we're also page one for a bunch of
seo and web terms so making sure you're
leveraging those keywords that people
are actually going to type in because
they need your service right here right
now and also thinking about search terms
for people higher up in the sales funnel
or perhaps more at the consideration or
early education stages so perhaps
they're looking up things like how to
find the best sales trainer or what to
consider when looking for sales training
or maybe looking up specific parts of
sales training like how to tackle
negotiation in sales or how to close
more deals these kind of things so then
if you've got useful information on your
website articles information page it
sends them to there it's helping your
brand because they're seeing your brand
it's giving them confidence in your
service it's leveraging those resources
and over time these people that are
early up in a sales cycle will have the
trust in your company and they may come
back to you when they're ready to
actually do business with you so make
sure you're thinking of
primarily buying intent high intent
buying search terms and also leveraging
search terms perhaps for people higher
up the sales funnel so you can win from
all angles and next up my fourth tip is
making sure everything's set up on your
website to measure your results so this
means things like installing google
analytics google search console but
analytics is really really key doesn't
matter if you choose google analytics or
another tool as long as you can
understand things like how much traffic
your website's getting if you could
understand your bounce rates so whenever
someone goes onto a page and bounces off
without flicking through to another page
because if that bounce rate is really
high then you know something on your
website needs work whether that's your
page speed your messaging your design
your layout or something else
understanding the countries people are
visiting your site from the time they
spend on certain pages so for example
web choice our most popular page is our
homepage portfolio pricing pages about
us contact pages and if people are
dropping off really early it might be
that these pages need work
understanding the conversion rate so
understanding how many what the
percentage is of people that visit your
site and then convert into a call
convert into booking a demo
perhaps email you or perhaps purchase
directly so making sure
each
angle every option for someone to
convert for someone to speak to sales or
take that next step or purchase is being
tracked on your analytics tool so you
can measure and understand the exact
percentage of visitors that are
converting into sales opportunities or
direct sales on your site
why is this so key because then you can
actually understand how well your
marketing your seo your website is
performing in general you can understand
things like areas of improvement areas
that need looking at
and you can either do this yourself or
with your web team to really understand
where your website's at right now where
you want to get it to and any tweaks
that need to be made tip number five is
the willingness to collaborate so if
you're planning on doing seo yourself
then feel free to skip forward to the
next tip but if you're working with a
freelancer or a company for your seo
then there's going to need to be a fair
bit of collaboration through initial
planning initial audits reviewing your
website reviewing your content setting
up the keywords that link to actually
what you want to drive sales for around
your services or your products and then
looking at the website from a content
view you might need to change some
content add some pages add some
information technical view you might
need to look at your website page speed
you might need to make some updates to
things like your metadata meta titles
description that's shown on the search
engines when people do a search your
heading tags your title tags image alt
tags you might need to do various bits
and pieces across the site to make sure
it's optimal in terms of its content its
technical build to get best bang for
buck in terms of your on-site seo and
then off-site seo you might be working
with a company to create your content
that they might need you to check each
month and approve they might need you to
approve the back links they might have
other suggestions on or off your website
so making sure you can be responsive and
that you understand that the company is
going to be
typically working for your best
interests to get you these ranking gains
to get you that traffic and to get you
those sales opportunities flowing
through organic seo and understanding
that it's gonna be a collaborative
effort so you're gonna have to be
responsive and understand that this is
part of the game tip number six is as
much as i hate to say it seo is not the
be-all end-all what do i mean by that
well seo should always be part of a
mixed multi-channel marketing strategy
so for example at webchoice we've got a
bunch of ways that we drive inbound so
seo is our number one organic seo our
number one source for inbound then we've
got paid ads and review sites and
sponsored ads then we've got linkedin
organic so the organic content that i
put on linkedin each and every day we've
got this podcast we've got the email
lists the emails i send every monday and
then we've got referrals and a few other
smaller channels under that so six seven
or so different ways different streams
that most of them will direct to our
website of ways that prospects can find
us for us to drive inbound sales leads
our way so diversifying the way that
people can find you is really key so seo
is great for driving that organic
traffic building your brand and getting
enquiries that way but you should also
consider perhaps paid ads
perhaps looking at social channel that
your audience hang out on so if you're
b2b selling then linkedin's gonna be a
great one and then considering other
channels whether that is a podcast
putting videos on youtube creating
articles on your website so making sure
if one channel does take a hit and go
down you've got several other channels
that kick into play so you can have a
steady stream of traffic to your website
you're still building your brand and
you've still got inquiries sales
opportunities coming in so your business
doesn't collapse if one of them takes a
hit and my seventh and final tip before
you get started and invest in an seo
strategy is making sure you've got a
solid speed to lead process so what i
mean by this
is if a lead comes in your website if
someone books a call if someone emails
you someone fills out a form
you yourself if you run the company or
your sales team have got a quick
efficient process to get onto those
leads
take the next step whether it's a
discovery called a sales a meeting a
demonstration whatever it may be you've
got a slick process to handle those
swiftly so within a few minutes or at
least within an hour or so of them
coming in
so that way all your hard earned
time from all this seo is not going down
the drain and you're making sure that
you're working these leads fast because
there's plenty of data that shows the
first company to respond to an inquiry
often wins the deal so making sure
you've got that streamlined process to
handle these leads once they start
coming in and move them along the sales
process to ultimately grow your business
and make yourself more revenue from your
seo strategy and there you have it i
hope these tips and ideas and
considerations to put in play before you
kickstart an seo campaign for your
business have been helpful as always if
you're tuning in on youtube a quick
subscribe is really appreciated or if
you're on the audio podcast a quick
rating on your channel i'd be very
thankful for and with that said i shall
catch you on the next episode cheers